# Spring-2022-Boulder-BCycle-GBFS-Data
This contains the system status files, the script which downloads them, and the Jupyter Notebooks used to look at them, for our WRTG3035 semester project to recommend new BCycle locations.

An index of Boulder BCycle’s GBFS feeds, (including links to system status, station information, etc) can be found at https://gbfs.bcycle.com/bcycle_boulder/gbfs.json.

GBFS Data was collected using a simple script that continually downloads the system status file every time it is updated. There are some gaps, caused by internet/wifi problems and other technical difficulties. The script is `GBFSTest1A.py`, and it downloads this: https://gbfs.bcycle.com/bcycle_boulder/station_status.json.

Files are named somewhat inconsistently because there was no overarching plan when I first made them. Their names have not been changed here so that we don't risk breaking anything. In theory, you should be able to clone this, and everything will just work.

### Why are there so many files? Why not put them all in one big file so it's faster to read?
Because that's how I set it up to download them. 'GBFSTest1 Output Stuff.ipynb', the notebook for looking at the GBFS Data, has functions to read all the files, and generate one large file with all of them in exactly the format it wants them, and to read them in that form. Reading one big file seems to be much faster than reading a bunch of smaller files. I recommend you use that functionality if you want to run the notebooks. I decided not to add one of those large combined files here because they are over a gigabyte in size.

### Where do the maps come from?
The buildings and roads on the maps generated by the notebooks come from Boulder County Open Data. Those datasets are public domain. They aren't perfect, as you can see by looking at Will Vill (they don't show Will Vill East, even thought it had been constructed before those maps were supposedly updated), but they work as a general guide to where things are.

### Is there any licensing stuff to worry about?
Not that I'm aware of, but if you think there is please tell us. Although the GBFS documentation has a list of common licenses, I can't find anything in Boulder BCycle's feeds to indicate that there is one. Because of that, the fact that it's publicly accessible at all times, the fact that it is thoroughly anonymized (so you can't stalk users), and the fact that we have to show people what data we used for the project somehow, I assume that it's OK to make the status files available in this way.
